Valentine's Day. This is Valentine's Day. We're
testing.
To continue, sir, yesterday you were talking
about, or the day before yesterday, the faculty as
a family here. How did the faculty work together
and share and cooperate? First off, there were
There were a number of houses here that the people
lived in. That is, the residences, sort of thing.
Not only that, there's some of them had little
houses back of them for horses. I know several that
had that. Well, but... And some had milk cows? Oh
yeah, yeah, milk cows. Chickens? Yeah. Garden? I
don't assume they did. Yeah, you could because it
was open. There were no regulations against it.
Did they have a little place for their maid to live?
Some of them did. Now, most of the supplementary
people were Negroes. And they came in the south
side of this thing. They came from downtown. uh
welborn way or somewhere's in there it was that
away i don't know they came up through we were the
last house on the on that street and uh they came by
our house early in the morning and they spread out
through the through the campus i'm sure that there
must have been some in the northern part of the
campus where they wouldn't walk that far but uh
They were Negro maids and women, and they were paid
by the faculty women to take care of them. Now, when
you had wash day, which is usually Monday, you had
additional help, and that was furnished lots of
times by students. Students went in there, and I
know a fellow by the name of Scott, who one time or
later was chief engineer for the city of Bryan. He
used to come to our house at 6 o'clock in the morning
and start that iron pot out there and all of that
thing, you know, and they washed his clothes. And
everybody had their clothes line in the backyard?
Yes, right. They had a clothes line back there. And
they worked that. Now, each one of those houses
was, the departments had a home for their head of
their department. And the one we lived in for five
years from 1919 to 1924 was dedicated to the
etymology department. But Dr. Bilsing was
single. So he didn't qualify. He lived in Bryan, I
think, somewhere.
Or they had some single
places for him to live, like dormitories.
Did every house have a garage? Yes, almost all of
them did, even to the fact that it was the as I said, a
barn. And it depended on how much they had to have.
The one across the street where the Hazes lived, it
had a full-scale barn behind it with a hayloft in
it. And that was the only one down there, I
remember, that was there.
They, those departments, they had all those
houses scattered out, and that's where they, and
each one of them had its own department, and the
thing you had to do, the,
well,
You had a society that was entirely different than
anything you ever saw before.
Here's the head of the department. He had a whole
bunch of men under him. And their families were
there. They had other houses. Or they were in
Bryan, or mostly in Bryan, because that's all the
way you get back and forth.
There wasn't any housing. outside when we first
came here. There was no housing outside. There
were a number of farmers out there that had homes
and stuff like this. So there were children
involved. But they came into the school system,
that's the way. But the,
well, we went to church in Guyon Hall. They had
Sunday school there. I was in the kids' small
children's boys' class, and Dr. Reed was the one
that took care of us. And his house was the first
house east and south of Guy Haller's house there.
But at the end of the Sunday school, they would have
church. And at that point in time, the
Corps came in. And they marched in and sat down. I
mean, that guy in the hall would sit 2,700 people.
Did any of the Corps ever do any pranks or anything
during church? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Most of them,
they unbutton their things and they put a little
magazine in there. And you sit there and
read. I never went to church there, but we were not
required to. Where did you all go to church? We
didn't go to church. Oh, you didn't go to church
then? We went to Sunday school. Okay. Okay.
William Sunday School was just like church.
Reverend Matthews got up there and waved his hands
around like this, and we were singing and wearing
those. And so that's the way. And he had a house that
was just straight east of the, next to the
Commandant's house, across the street there.
Now, the president's big house was just west of
Sabisa. Yeah, it was just west of Sabisa. That's
where he lived. Were there any other big houses on
campus? Oh, yes. There was a line of big houses on
the other side of Quality Road. Okay. We called it
Quality Road. On the east side, the first one was
the Hayes House. It's a big old brick house. I mean,
it was brick with, uh, with, uh, the structure was
brick, and then it was stuccoed on the outside. And
then it skipped a house. The next house there was a
wooden house, and the Templeton lived in it. And
then Templeton lived in it. I don't know. And then
the Selby house came into being, the next one up,
and it was a, a big brick house with, uh, uh, stuff on
it. And then it, uh, Dean Pereer's house was there.
Pereer? Yeah. And then, uh, Dean Ball had a house.
Now, what? I mean, Dr. Ball. Oh, okay. Not Dean
Ball, Dr. Ball. He was a I never understood what he
was, but he was always after, he and,
I don't know whether it was Mark Steller, I don't
think it was, it was somebody in the vet school,
they were always after finding these skillets of
small horses. that whole, there's something
around here somewhere with a whole bunch of them.
They used to be in
Francis Hall. They used to be in there. And so
that's where that, but the society that we had was
that the head of the department and all of the
people They had a, they just would go visit people.
And did they? Numbers of times when we would come
out of Sunday school, and dad or mother would say,
don't take your Sundays off. We got to go, we got to
go visit somebody, or we got to go to dinner with
somebody. I remember after Dr. Beltsy married, we
went and Had dinner with them. Now, if the family
was going to go eat out, was there a restaurant or a
cafe? No, there was no place to eat. Had to go all the
way to downtown Bryan, didn't they? Well, of
course, the Corps was fed in Spiegel. And it always
marched in the company front. Did you and other
family, did y'all ever eat much in Sabeasa?
Faculty didn't go there much to eat. Not that I
remember. I was never in there for a meal. All the
time I was there, I never was in there for a meal. But
we would go. In the afternoons, you had a whole
afternoon. You had no
radio, no engagements. The only thing you had was a
picture show. Was it okay for little boys to play
out on Sunday afternoon on campus? Oh, yeah. Okay,
so you could go play. Oh, yeah, Dr. Dean
Boulder. His yard was a pretty good size. There'd
be about ten of us in there. We'd have a football or
we'd have a ball of some sort. We'd play there and
then all of a sudden down the road there, Dad would
come along in the car and he'd signal, come on home.
That was all there was to it. When you were growing
up, do you remember any really bad weather, bad
snow, bad ice, a flood, or anything like that?
There was a tornado here. Really? What happened?
Well,
one morning,
I remember it very distinctly. I was in the office,
right down here someplace, underneath this
place. That's where the Ag and Air Building was. It
was an old wooden structure. And it had a, behind
it, it had a big, old barn. The, what they called it,
the, uh, the Regranovy Building, or the
Agriculture Building, was built in 24. So in 19, it
was, it wasn't there. That was the big old building
they trained the soldiers in to drive cars. That's
what that was for. But across the street where the
engineering building is now was another wooden
building. It had a pitched roof on it and it had two
sides to it and it was full of machinery that was
loaned to college for instruction
by various companies. I.C., John Deere, and other
companies, and there were some odd ones in there,
too. But on the second floor of that thing, it was a
big second floor, when that tornado hit that
thing, He took the roof off it, just the pitch roof,
took it over the provision, and about several
hundred yards, the other side of it, threw it on the
ground. I remember. About when was this tornado?
Do you remember? It was probably about 1922. It was
about in there somewhere. Did it do any damage to
your house where y'all were living? The only thing
it did damage to was that one building that housed
all
the ag engineering farm machinery. And nobody got
hurt badly? Nobody got hurt. The only thing it did,
when it went over this old building that was behind
the ag engineering, it dropped one of the post, a
very big old post, and dropped that, and it went
right through the roof and hit the floor. Ka-bam!
So that, nobody seems to know anything about that
area, that thing, but it was, it turned, I can draw
you pictures of it. The roof was like this. It was,
it was, it was, regular, Pitch roof, there's two
sides here. And then all of a sudden, when that roof
went off, these sides laid down flat on each side.
And then the second floor had no support except
down the middle. And it got a hump in it. It was like a
camel. And all that machinery slid off on the
ground, and that's what broke it up. And Dad, he
told all the people in the department to stay
quiet, and they did. And after it was all over, they
went over there and looked at it. And he was upset,
because that stuff was on loan to him. And he didn't
know whether he was going to pay for it or what. So I
remember he went and he had to, a couple of days
later, he got through some telephone
conversations with some of the people in Dallas
that he had got the machinery from. And he just
said, well, I got to tuck my tail and go up there and
ask them what we're going to do about this thing. He
walked into those people, they said, they just
immediately said, have your botanist take them
apart and list us a piece that you need and we'll
send it to you. Oh, how good, how good. So that's
what happened to that thing. And he got a rapport
with those people and he always had with them.
Later on, he became Secretary and Treasurer of
Texas Airborne. Now, when did he become a
department head? When he got here. Oh, he was
department head when he came. There were only
three men in the department. And by the time he
retired, how many were in the department, I
reckon?
It was really lively. I wouldn't know. Was it one of
the best ag engineering departments in the
country? It was the best. We need to get,
in the Ag Engineering Journal, there is a memorial
to him. We ought to get that thing. It's printed in
there. Who do you think were some of his closest
faculty friends? Who were some of his favorite
colleagues? Oh, he got along with most everybody.
I know, but who were his closest friends? Dean
Kyle. Dean Kyle. Oh.
the Civil Engineering department because he was
trained for three years in Ohio State. So he got
along with those people, Dr. Ritchie, and then I
worked for Dr. Ritchie. That was driving those
students in the summertime.
There were several over there in Sandstead, was
one of them, and there were several in the CE
department that he got along with real good. And
the only one he didn't get along with was the
English department. Do you know why? Well, yes, I
do know. See, when he was, the college came down
here, I mean,
the
Hardware and Implement Association approached
the college. It must have been about 1924 or
something like that. And they said, we need some
help to run this organization and to get to the
organization. And do you have anybody that could
take that job? And so it was offered to Dan. And
that's when he joined them. And that's when they
linked up. Well, yeah, they linked up. And he had a
college, rented them the Well, offices. He had two
offices in there that were, they were nothing but
secretaries. He ran the whole thing. And he took
care of everything. And so we made friends all over
the state. Who do you think of all the presidents he
served under, who was his favorite president? A&M
president. I would say it turned to Dr. Walton.
T.O. Walton?
Well, they lived right next door to us. See, we were
there. We were on the end on the west side, and
Walton's had the home adjacent to us. So you were
good friends before he became president? Oh, yes.
Oh, yes. I mean, he was... working for the
extension service. He ran the extension service.
Describe Dr. Walton's personality. Oh, he was
great. He was a pretty good-sized man. I mean, big
man.
But he wasn't that imposing. He carried himself
well, and... he'd stand there and talk to you just
like you were, kids like you were. And he could get
up and talk, and that was what really got him to
where he went. Because in those days, you had to
sell the college. Sure. And you had to get people
out there that could help that. Now, a little bit of
back history on that was that the Extension
Service was formed
just prior to World War I. Dad was in Mississippi
and he made an awful lot of good friends over there
amongst the
Agriculture Riders. He went to Europe. Oh, good.
In 1924. My, my. And was sponsored by the
Agriculture Riders Association. Later, he went
to Mexico, and then went down there again. And the
funny part about that was they had a Baptist
preacher that was in the group, and they were all
telling him, you've got to drink beer, you've got
to drink liquor, or wine, or stuff like that, or
you're going to get sick. And that old Baptist, he
was our boy, and he was getting sick. And when you
were growing up, what did your parents give you as
your guidelines for what you could not do?
Well, the one thing I couldn't approach, I
couldn't get mad at my mother. Okay.
What about strong language? Could you use strong
words? Oh, I haven't. I did a little, but not too
much. Smoking? Drinking? No, we didn't smoke.
Mother and Dad drank every night. What did they
drink? They drank
beer. Now, where'd they get that during
Depression years? I mean, during the Prohibition
years? You had near beer. Oh, okay. You had
Budweiser that only had about half a percent of it.
Yeah. And they would let me drink that. Okay. We'd
go down. Mother and Dad would go downstairs in the
kitchen before they went to bed, and they would sit
there and drink one of the bottles of beer. And the
doctors always said that it was good for you.
That's what they said. And
they do that today. Doctors tell me, go get a small
drink before you go to bed. In those years, did you
all have an electric refrigerator or an icebox?
First, we had an icebox. And did the Iceman come to
the house? Yes, he was an old man White. Old man
White. A big, tall man. His name was White. And he
was a...
You drive a wagon or a car? Or a truck?
I think he had a wagon. But you put... You had some
little stickers No, they were just stickers. Oh,
okay. And you put that on the back of the door, and
they told him how much they were going to put in that
box. And originally, that was just one loaded from
the top, and that was the ice pit, and then it had
some stuff down there. Immediately, almost
immediately, Dad got a hold of a GE monitor top
refrigerator.
The refrigerant in that is sulfadoxa instead of
the regular refrigerants we had. And he got one,
and it was a small one. One door, but it had the top on
it. And that was too small, and so he traded that for
a double door with a 1V monitor top on it. And that
served us for years. Describe your mother's
routine. In the 20s, when you kids were growing up,
what did she do? I
don't know what time it was. She bailed out of that
thing, and the first thing she did was to go get that
folder of coffee and make some coffee. After she
got that, she was a golden consumer. But that's the
worst thing that ever happened in this house. And
so it is. And
she worked hard at it, and she cooked, and then she
called
Luke and Charlie's. Now that's Luke Patronella
and Charlie Aubergine. I remember that name. They
had a store on Northgate. Mm-hmm. And they
deliver, did they have a truck or a wagon? I don't, I
don't know. But they delivered the groceries. I
imagine it was a small truck. Who were your
mother's closest friends? What other ladies were
her? Oh, Ms. Walton. Ms. Walton came over there
when Dr. Warren deemed us. And daddy went to Brian
and got him a room. And Mrs. Walden came over there
and asked mother what she needed and went and got
it. That's the kind of people. And then the Hazes
were across the street. He was something that I'll
have to look that up. I never knew exactly. But I
think he was in the education department or
something like that. And then the Wheatlers who
lived in that house later on, they were good
neighbors. Now, when the Depression hit the
state, the nation, how did life on the campus
change? It didn't change. Now, did the enrollment
change much? No. Faculty didn't get laid up? No.
The enrollment didn't change. It kept growing.
Did they lay any faculty off? No, because
Texas has this biennial
appropriation, and
that was straddled in the crash. Uh-huh. We went up
into 29
or something like that. Probably 28 and 29 is what
it was. And they were paid good money at that time.
But then immediately following that is when the
crash hit A&M.
But the students kept coming.